# Tricemix: Decentralized Referral Marketing Solution

Imagine you're a budding entrepreneur with an amazing product and you want to launch and go live. Now, of course, you'll need to market it and one of the ways is to create a referral marketing campaign, a marketing tactic that makes use of recommendations and word of mouth to grow a business's customer base through the networks of its existing customers.

Before you say, "_Oh cool! I'll set up one right away!_" and runoff, here are some of the things we noticed about the current infrastructure for creating a decent referral program,

- Initial build and customization fee for creating referral programs generally costs around $15,000-$40,000, plus the ongoing license and support fees (approximately $2000+ per month) if hiring a marketing agency.
- Inventory management is not a piece of cake.
- Building and especially maintaining payment systems is hard as hell.

That's where we come in. We're trying to become a decentralized referral marketing solution for modern marketers and creators.

# What it does

We present Tricemix, a one-click platform for building customer referral programs. Creating one and handing out rewards is unbelievably simple with Tricemix: customers can receive digitalbits without creating a single account or giving out personal information, for example, your bank details. All one needs is the customer's email address. Not only that but the rewards can be shared among users, allowing users to send digitalbits to anyone, regardless of if they have an account or not.

Using Tricemix dApp is straightforward. It only takes three steps to create and run a referral program of your taste by providing an interface to: create an account, set up a referral program, let users receive and share digitalbits in return seamlessly.

The marketing industry can potentially benefit from Tricemix by allowing users to leverage Digitalbits technologies to build better marketing campaigns and much more.

# How we built it

At its core, the Tricemix service runs a federation server, federates payment addresses with an email prefix like `megha@digitalbits.io*tricemix.com`. If the recipient doesn't have a valid email address, one will be created for them and they will get an email notifying them that they have received rewards from the sender.

The detailed version, if an email address is entered, the address is searched in the **Tricemix Federation Service** with the "`*tricemix.com`" suffix. If there is a matching address, then the transfer is made to that account. If not, a keypair is generated by the federation service, of an account that has not yet been created. Then Tricemix adds a creation operation to the transaction and explains the XDB token requirements to the user. If the user continues with the transaction, the new account will be created and given the transferred token, at which point Tricemix will email the new user with their account details, allowing them to access their new tokens.

The project was composed using Svelte, Python3 and Go.

## Accomplishments that we're proud of

This has been our first hackathon submission, and I worked in conjunction with the ideas set out by Piyush. I developed my technical communication skills and reached out to the Digitalbits rich documentation when clarification was needed. We are also proud to have made these web apps independently.

## What we learned

I learned a lot about product development and how the federation server works, even if we couldn't manage to put that knowledge into practice within the time limits. I also learned a lot about Digitalbits and what sets it apart from other blockchains.

## What's next for Tricemix

If it's recommended, we would love to work more on Tricemix to get it out and open it to the public, allowing companies to create their referral programs letting users earn Digitalbits. It would serve as a massive utility for users, as well as a smooth way to onboard their friends and family on the Digitalbits network. We hope to build on Digitalbits in future developments and help proliferate the Digitalbits network.